Add instructions for testing JF web (#1104)
jellyfin/jellyfin.org: docs/general/testing/web/index.md

---
uid: testing-web
title: Testing Jellyfin Web Clients
---

## Weekly Unstable Builds

Weekly unstable builds ship Jellyfin Server and Jellyfin Web in a complete package. Please refer to [Testing Jellyfin Server](/docs/general/testing/server/) for more info.

## Testing PRs from Cloudflare Pages Deployments

Each PR of [Jellyfin Web](https://github.com/jellyfin/jellyfin-web) and [Jellyfin Vue](https://github.com/jellyfin/jellyfin-vue) is automatically deployed to Cloudflare Pages. Please follow the steps below on how to test them.

> 1. Find the PR you would like to checkout in the list of open PRs. [PRs for Jellyfin Web](https://github.com/jellyfin/jellyfin-web/pulls), [PRs for Jellyfin Vue](https://github.com/jellyfin/jellyfin-vue/pulls)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Find the PR you would like to checkout in the list of open PRs ([PRs for Jellyfin Web](https://github.com/jellyfin/jellyfin-web/pulls), [PRs for Jellyfin Vue](https://github.com/jellyfin/jellyfin-vue/pulls))
```

Reviewer: @felix920506 Any reason why this is not changed?

Reviewer: Another approach, which makes more sense:
```suggestion
1. Find the PR you would like to checkout in the list of open PRs: [PRs for Jellyfin Web](https://github.com/jellyfin/jellyfin-web/pulls), [PRs for Jellyfin Vue](https://github.com/jellyfin/jellyfin-vue/pulls)
```

Author: I think the change you suggested actually makes it more cluttered which isn't something we want for a docs, but I don't have any ideas on how to change it either

Reviewer: Does the two dots look good enough for you?

I understand the cluttering feeling, but imo it's important we stick with all the "writing conventions" and redaction it's important for an easier reading too!

Author: Looks good

> 2. There should be a comment from `jellyfin-bot` with a link to a deployed version of this PR. Click on the link next to `Preview URL` to open a hosted instance of the current PR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. There should be a comment from `jellyfin-bot` with a link to a deployed version of that PR. Click on the link next to `Preview URL` to open a hosted instance of the current PR.
```

   ![CF Pages Comment](/images/docs/testing/web/cf-pages-comment.png)

> 3. Clicking on the link in the comment will open an instance of the client you are testing. For Jellyfin Web, it will be linked to a demo server. If you wish to connect to a different server, simply click the `Change Server` button. For Jellyfin Vue, a demo server can be connected with this address: `https://demo.jellyfin.org/unstable/`. The demo instance can be logged in using credentials provided on the login page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Clicking on the link in the comment will open an instance of the client you are testing. For Jellyfin Web, it will be linked automatically to our demo server. For Jellyfin Vue, you can connect with this address: `https://demo.jellyfin.org/unstable/`. The credentials will be provided on the login page.

If you wish to connect to a different server, simply click the `Change Server` button in both applications.
```

I believe this is more concise and the Change server behaviour covers both.

---
uid: testing-web-clients
title: Testing Jellyfin Web Clients
---

## Weekly Unstable Builds

Weekly unstable builds ship Jellyfin Server and Jellyfin Web in a complete package. Please refer to [Testing Jellyfin Server](/docs/general/testing/server/) for more info.

> ## Testing PRs from Cloudflare Pages Deployments

Reviewer 2: This method will not work for every PR. If you don't see your changes in the deployed page you need to build it locally.

Reviewer: You mean if the user modified the PR afterwards, right? Because every PR has its own up-to-date deployment unless CI is down unexpectedly (which is something we shouldn't consider for these layman's terms docs).

Reviewer 2: We have already seen this multiple times on the web PRs where it only works when build locally I'm not sure the actual reasons because I don't know how that is deployed but that is a thing

Reviewer: This is something that we should fix in our side then, nothing we should ever make users aware of.

Reviewer 2: We need to let them know before we fix that though.

Each PR of [Jellyfin Web](https://github.com/jellyfin/jellyfin-web) and [Jellyfin Vue](https://github.com/jellyfin/jellyfin-vue) is automatically deployed to Cloudflare Pages. Please follow the steps below on how to test them.

> 1. Find the PR you would like to checkout in the list of open PRs: [PRs for Jellyfin Web](https://github.com/jellyfin/jellyfin-web/pulls), [PRs for Jellyfin Vue](https://github.com/jellyfin/jellyfin-vue/pulls)

Reviewer 3: >checkout

In this case it should be "check out" as in "look at, view, inspect"; "checkout" is a Git action. Though I'd use something like "PR you would like to demo in the" or "PR you would like to test in the" personally as it's less informal.

> 2. On most PRs, there should be a comment from `jellyfin-bot` with a link to a deployed version of the current PR. Click on the link next to `Preview URL` to open a hosted instance of the current PR. Some PRs might not have this comment, or the link is otherwise not working. It will have to be built from source in this case.

Reviewer 3: >Some PRs might not have this comment, or the link is otherwise not working. It will have to be built from source in this case.

This should probably be a note section/exception (`:::note`?) for the odd case. I'd also word it a bit different to make it feel more natural:

>Some PRs might not have a preview URL comment, or the link might otherwise not work. To test out these PRs, you will need to build them manually.

   ![CF Pages Comment](/images/docs/testing/web/cf-pages-comment.png)
3. Clicking on the link in the comment will open an instance of the client you are testing. For Jellyfin Web, it will be linked automatically to our demo server. For Jellyfin Vue, you can connect to the demo server with this address: `https://demo.jellyfin.org/unstable/`. The credentials will be provided on the login page.

If you wish to connect to a different server, click the `Change Server` button in the apps at the login screen. Alternatively, enter a different server address in Jellyfin Vue when first prompted to add a server.

:::caution

> Using a development version of clients may lead to data corruption or loss on the server. Please make regular backups of Jellyfin files. [Read More](/docs/general/administration/configuration#server-paths)

Reviewer 2: Just don't use production data for testing. Always separate test env and prod env and backup the prod env is something else.

Each PR of [Jellyfin Web](https://github.com/jellyfin/jellyfin-web) and [Jellyfin Vue](https://github.com/jellyfin/jellyfin-vue) is automatically deployed to Cloudflare Pages. Please follow the steps below on how to test them.

1. Find the PR you would like to test / review in the list of open PRs: [PRs for Jellyfin Web](https://github.com/jellyfin/jellyfin-web/pulls), [PRs for Jellyfin Vue](https://github.com/jellyfin/jellyfin-vue/pulls)
2. On most PRs, there should be a comment from `jellyfin-bot` with a link to a deployed version of the current PR. Click on the link next to `Preview URL` to open a hosted instance of the current PR.
   ![CF Pages Comment](/images/docs/testing/web/cf-pages-comment.png)

   :::note
   Some PRs might not have this comment, or the link might otherwise not work. To test out these PRs, they will have to be built manually.
   :::

3. Clicking on the link in the comment will open an instance of the client you are testing. For Jellyfin Web, it will be linked automatically to our demo server. For Jellyfin Vue, you can connect to the demo server with this address: `https://demo.jellyfin.org/unstable/`. The credentials will be provided on the login page.

> If you wish to connect to a different server, click the `Change Server` button in the apps at the login screen. Alternatively, enter a different server address in Jellyfin Vue when first prompted to add a server.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   If you wish to connect to a different server, click the `Change Server` button in the apps at the login screen. Alternatively, enter a different server address in Jellyfin Vue when first prompted to add a server.
```

> :::caution
> 
> Using a development version of clients may lead to data corruption or loss on the server. Please use a dedicated test server and make regular backups of Jellyfin files. [Read More](/docs/general/administration/configuration#server-paths)
> 
> :::

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
:::caution
Using a development version of clients may lead to data corruption or loss on the server. Please use a dedicated test server and make regular backups of Jellyfin files. [Read More](/docs/general/administration/configuration#server-paths)
:::
```

I guess this links to "Server Paths" so you know what needs to be included in backups? That wasn't immediately obvious to me, so maybe we should change "Read More" to something more descriptive.
